Stock price analysis is an important topic in financial industry and reasons that cause the changes of stock price can be various. According to the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH), it states that stock market prices are largely driven by new information and follow a random walk pattern. Therefore, our project will explore how different sentiments on social media affect the stock price change. To specify our research, the project will only investigate stock price change of Apple Company, which is one of the biggest technology companies in the world. Analyzing the impact of sentiments on Apple Company’s stock price will help companies gain insights from social media platform and find out if the public opinions will cause the stock price change or be affected by it.

Our datasets, which are Tweet.csv, Company_Tweet.csv, Company.csv, include tweets that are written about Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Tesla by using their appropriate share tickers from 2015 to 2020. It contains over 3 million unique tweets with their information such as tweet id, author of the tweet, post-date, the text body of the tweet, and the number of comments, likes, and retweets of tweets matched with the related company. As we will only focus on Apple company, hence we will have data preprocessing steps to filter out tweets about Apple. Additionally, another dataset Apple (AAPL) Historical Stock Data, contains the daily stock price of Apple from 2012 to 2022.

In our project, we will apply classic natural language processing methods and dictionaries to investigate following questions, including the impact of different sentiments on the 5-year change of stock prices of Apple company, different sentiments distribution of the year/month at the highest/lowest stock price, as well as the stock price at the highest and lowest sentiment point. Moreover, each year Apple will host new generation iPhone event in September or October, we will especially analyze sentiments and the stock price change during those special periods. Furthermore, we will explore the correlation between stock price and different sentiments using linear regression model. 
Reference
[1] Anshul Mittal, Arpit Goel, Stock Prediction Using Twitter Sentiment Analysis, Standford University, CS229, 2011.
[2] Kaggle, Tweets about the Top Companies from 2015 to 2020, https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/omermetinn/tweets-about-the-top-companies-from-2015-to-2020?resource=download&select=Tweet.csv.
